.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                      $..#$
                                                             Calw 25 Mai 75
My dear Julie

.ue 2
                                                                      $..#$
Forts.: 25 Mai 75
Today Carl's birthday. I went yesterday evening to the Hesses and invited
him to see me in the morning as I could offer him a cigar. So he came be-
fore 8 got (the chocolade) cigar and 1 Thaler, which I enjoined him to
bring to his Mama. In going out he said I like this into my Sparcasse, da-
mit die Heiden fr”mmer werden. It must be something from the Sister: per-
haps he fancies, the Sparcasse helps also the Mission. Joh told me after-
wards that he demanded no more to be called baby since he is now old, and
to give him a Kreuzer per day instead of the sugar for his breakfast, it
seems also for that Sparcasse which makes the heathen more pious. - I talk-
ed with the ladies who have ideas about Horb Rottweil Strassburg Heidelberg
and what not all. I gave to Jennie what we had spoken of, she was very
deeply touched by it. - Today came Burkhardt (once with Beutelspachers, his
mother was buried 8 days ago) to accompany Hesse tomorrow to England. Also
Pfarrer Eipper for whom Paul preached so often will accompany them we hope,
so it will be a nice company, probably gathering strength as it proceeds on
its way.

They say Rickele uttered some words (towards Hannele) as if she was sorry
of what she had said and how she had behaved. To us she seems courteous,
but speaks little.

Nothing about ________________ that I could hear or observe.

I slept nicely, was also prepared for a nap after dinner when Burkhdt came,
after he had talked with Hesse. Burkh feared the Ladies and Jettle showed
him now to escape by going up the staircase. When he did this against my
will he threw my coffee cup to the ground. It proved 2not1 invulnerable. So I
gave him a lesson and let him out.

No more news, but I am glad that you both found your way easily. May the
Lord bless your stay there. With much love to you both
.fo -
                                  Your HG
.ns
.dr HG250575.2
