.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Cannanore

                                                         Mang. 21 Aug <56>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 21 Aug <56>*
Yesterday I wrote to our boys, Herm and Sam also a word to the Kinderhaus
fellows, and sent to Insp. (for Stuttg) one of the photographs, hope it may
arrive safe. - After the Tamil meetg at Carr's where I had nearly 30 peo-
ple, I saw Hodson for a moment, but came soon away as all the officers were
sitting in Durbar around him. Carr fears he will only be the good man this
time and no Christian. He looks hearty, but some what old. - On Tuesday
evening Carr and Brett were evidently prepared for a good scolding, Hoch
prayed also much to the purpose, rather strongly. I thought they would get
knocks enough without much going out of my way ("Sanctify the Lord God in
your hearts.) afterwards C. said to BÅhrer: this was rather strong food,
solid food, meaning not exactly the thing for such beginners as they are.
Yesterday evening I Drank the 1st tea with BÅhr's - Today there is much
coaching to Bîsinger's the school is closed for her benefit. The sisters
complain that Bîs. seems to have never thought of preparations no pot de
chambre etc in the house

I wonder what David thinks of Chir. If he knows it still and if there are
_______________________ etc Love to him, dear Heb. Jac. Nath Sebast Abrah
etc
.fo -
                                  Your HG
.ns
.dr HG220856
