.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mme J. Gundert, Mlle Uranie Dubois, Corcelles, Neuchatel

                                                             Calw 31 May 61
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 31 May 61
Very glad to hear of your arrival at B. What big people you are to go by
Carriage. Hadn't you seen the Mission house the last time, that you were so
surprised at its grandeur? As for Herm. I hope only slow progress, the pow-
er of willing and doing is so weakened in him thro' long continued unfaith-
fulness to gifts received! But there is nothing too hard for our Lord! -
After you had gone, there was some emptiness in the house. We have perfect-
ed this yet farther, by dispatching the 3 fellows to Stuttg and Lauffen.
Wednesday morning I accompanied David and Paul to the top of the hill and
then returned with Carl, whilst Julius went with the travellers as far as
Althengstett. Carl I sent by the post to Stuttg, and I hope that was the
better way on account of his Reisesack and as I did not like to have him
too much tired by the way. His mother wrote to Barth, who sent me the let-
ter. Mîgl has written what they weigh 90 __ and 190 __. He hopes the bath
will effect a more equal distribution of this weight.

From Dr B. no particular news. It is hoped he may soon return. Weitbr will
probably bring some news today. Helfer has asked me to preach this Sunday
for him. Marie Wîhrle has found her mother rather displeased to have stop-
ped with us on Sunday over the dinner at Zavelst. Julius will probably go
to Zavelst for some days. He cannot go home as they have the measles at
GrÅnthal. The days appear very long to him without the company of the boys.
Well I hope one day we shall be again together and have to recount many
mercies received, a foretaste of what will be the case when we meet after
the tribulation is over. Much love to your dear sister, remember me also
kindly to Jaquets and to the minister
.fo -
                                  Your HG
.ns
.dr HG310561.2
