.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev. H. Gundert, Kotirgherry, paid

<49>*                                                Chiracal 5th August 51

Dear papa.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 5th August 51
Today the 4the our dear Samuel's birthday. I fancy to see him very joyful
with his presents and good dinnar of "lebervirst"

Saturday I received yours of the 28th for which, thank. We shall wait pa-
tiently to see the result of Miss <Kegel>* will, and will not. Yesterday I
heard a good preaching on the text of the day; "Those who still say on my
honnor, on my word, they do not know there is a God they are Gods them-
selves. Now what do you think the soldirs have offered to Hebich to make
him a fine pulpit and I am afraid he will accept it. What vain people are
those soldirs, they would do much better to give monney to build an house
for the boys. I made sad face when Hebich showed the plan of the pulpit!
The Sister have made a beautiful covering to put over the coffins of deads
when carried to the burial grown with out the work it cost 22 Rps it is of
black velvet with frills. The Begbies are still kept here by the rain: She
is rather disliked by the christian people here for her talking so very
much and at rendom. They had long discutions with Mr H. The daughter seems
to be the best of them she regrets to leave this place. I wish she could
marry; she would I think become as good as her Sister Francis. I was glad
to read your explanation of John 20.8 and am still more glad that you have
made some tracts. I hope they will be sent to us when printed: Would you
perhaps by opportunity tell them at Telli. that we would be obliged for
their sending us tracts or books whenever they have any new ones. I like to
have them read by the girls with Joseph afternoon when we are all quiet at
school. Today Miss and Elisabeth have read us the Madras fine news about
the conversion and beptism of John and Anna. Do you know any thing about
that John who was baptised at Mangalo when you were there? how is he going
on Poor Huber how wise in his own eyes he is still. I am glad you are look-
ing for a pony, you will be able then to pay some visits round you on the
Hills. My love to dear Sophie. Jacob's special Salams. Our children are
pretty well Vau still cross with his cold which is not quite gone
.fo -
                             Yours J Gundert.

Miss Kegel wishes to know the meaning of the words enclosed she thought
they were french but I dont know them they are in a letter sent to her by
the Student Mayor you know she heard already before from him

Tell Nani that our ________________________ cow gives five bottles of milk.
.ns
.dr HG060851
 bauen - sie zeigten sich freundlich, und hoffe machen als gemach
voran. Sonst wei· ich jetzt nichts mehr. Der HErr behÅte Dich und stÑrke
auch Deine Gesundheit! Er erweise sich als Arzt an allen Kranken und gebe
uns Seinen seligen Frieden
.fo -
                                  Dein HG

Ich schrieb an Sarasin - was und wie ichs wolle fÅr MÑdchenanstalt, sonst
lieber sich mit hielÑndischen KrÑften behelfen.
.ns
.dr HG040851.3
is here, and also a servant, but he has not yet made his appearance
being probably with that dear headman in the Orangevalley, who strokes him
so lovingly on every visit, and who wishing to do something extra in his
devotions, had for a whole month prayed every morning standing on one leg,
hoping that thus our God would hear him the sooner. Mîrike does not like
this man so much, but Metz is enchanted with his _______ <Metz has just ar-
rived>

Today is my sister Marie's birthday, and tomorrow Samuel's, whom you no
doubt remember. Already 11 years old - how these children do grow! You nev-
er mentioned having received the l