.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

30                                                         Koterg. 9 Aug 51
                                                                <Saturday>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 9 Aug 51
Tho' I wrote only yesterday, yet as I have received 2 letters at once from
you (2d and 4th Aug) I think it my duty to answer at once your questions. -
Tho' the Fitzg's are to leave tomorrow yet as you ask I will tell you all -
paper I have bought here, in the time the Cooly was on his slow way - ink I
bought from Mrs Buhrer - psalms I got from Kaity - but the 1000 proverbs in
my copy (interleaved and something written into them) and also if there be
place the Kerala Utp. of Fritz are desirable. Yet no hurry about them. The
remaining time will pass rapidly and I have my hands full of work without
anything coming from other quarters. - About the Coolies? perhaps 2 windows
just as in your bedroom would do no harm. But I donot wish more than that.
- I am glad Cheecoti is useful and does your work. Nanny learns a good deal
of English with Mrs BÅhrer to say nothing of Tulu and Canarese and Tamil. -
Hoffm has written a letter to us of the Mal. stations (addressed to me) and
one to Mîglg a longer one in which he says yet more plainly how little he
likes his present position and how much he still feels his loss of a year
ago. He deserves to be prayed for, he is evidently very much cast down. -
So is Irion on account of his wife's illness. She has ulceration of the
womb, and a bad careless Dr: perhaps he will therefore go down with her to
Coimbatur to visit the clever physician there. - Robins. paid yesterday
evening his farewell visit, regretted not to have written to Heb, but he
intends doing it the next free forenoon. He has so many picknicks and dis-
tractions etc. - How is dear Vau. I often think of him, because all that is
connected with throats, and breath and hoarse voice finds a cord within me,
on which the least touch resounds intensely. - I have written to our 3
children with this mail. I hope the next mail will soon arrive and bring
you also something. If newspapers come, Heb may send them over quickly to
Fred. M to dispatch to me without delay. - You say something of a new pul-
pit? Has the old become unsafe or wormeaten? or is it not high enough? - If
Miss Francis is so nice, why not keep her in the place? She would be better
there than with her mother. Would not perhaps Capt Carr like to perform so
charitable an action: I mean from pure philanthropy.

Beuttler gave very bad news of Young in Islington. He seems to make money
by the Mission and is so estranged to his wife that people suppose it is
not mere business what makes him spend 1-2 days every week out of his
house. They are rapidly losing the rest of their character. I wish they may
repent in time. But perhaps an open fall is needed to bring them to their
senses. - Of Dietz he (B.) speaks very well. His parents are in Austria,
opposed to the truth, he has difficulty to learn languages, but a turn for
practical work and is not difficult to be led. He was very serious in Col-
lege no trifler in matters of soul's salvation.

I hope I shall not forget to mention your wants when I write next to Telli-
cherry. But I think it is a long time since they have produced any thing
new.

John is with Stanger at Bellary, learning English (his great wish) and su-
perintending some boys. He is not happy and easily annoyed with contrarie-
ties. St. mentioned once having given him a good lesson, when he said - I
wish I had rather died than come to Bellary. Probably when he has been suf-
ficiently humbled he will return to Mang where his place evidently is.

Nothing else that I know of except love to all and esp. to you. I am cer-
tainly continuing to improve: and am glad when I am again with you and the
2 little ones. Meanwhile time runs away so rapidly that I fancy the moment
to be very near, when f.i. our dear Marie may return to us! But what all
may not be stored up for us in the meantime. Certainly mercies far outnum-
bering the trials if we will but keep our eye steady on the beginner and
finisher of faith!
.fo -
                               Now farewell
                                     Yours HGdt
.ns
.dr HG090851.2
