.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Cannanore, Bearing

25                                                          Kaity 11 May 51
                                                                  <Sunday>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 11 May 51
Yesterday evening Mglg on his last Saturday visit brought your's of the
4th. Also one from Hoch, whose Pauline wrote about Marie: "Sie ahmte den
Lîwen mit rauher Stimme nach und verwandelte dieselbe wieder in eine sanfte
kleine Stimme wenn das MÑuschen sprach" alluding to the poem which she re-
cited at the examination. After dinner Marie occasionally asks "Papa derfe
mer eppis dichte? willst Du die erste Linie sagen" etc but that seems to be
now nearly at an end. Pauline often goes to Gundldg. to see the dear chil-
dren who then receive her under "lautem Jubel". - Insp. read the report of
the Genl Conference and seemed not quite to approve that one allowed the 2
Oberlaender <Kies, Albrecht>* to return without giving them a fuller les-
son. So Barth writes to Mgl. Kullen wrote a joyful letter expecting soon to
go to Basle for a few months of preparation, before coming out. Graul has
written a very bad description of the work at Mangalore - evidently trying
to do our Society as much harm as possible. So I wonder what he will have
said of Cannanore! He is a Lump, said Mglg. - The same may be said of GÅtz-
laff concerning whom Hamberg was obliged to write a report and have it
printed at Canton, showing that G. had reported to Germany what he knew to
be untrue (f.i. of a whole village having thrown away their idols, he him-
self being present etc - whilst there is now not one Christian in it) It is
a most melancholy picture. -

Now I will talk of nearer subjects. Feddy is well these days and cheerful.
Nanni prays repeatedly with him he also allows me to do it, which at first
he would not do, as if fearing it might become too long. - I never said any
thing about removing the little mud Verandah before my room - I mean stones
are to be put where the water dropping from the roof (the caves) has hol-
lowed out the ground. As this water cannot run off, it of course renders
the Verandah damper than it otherwise would be - I do not know if the book-
binder <Barid>* at Tell. is a rogue. He is a Quilonman and relation of
Thaddai, and 2not1 converted, but there is nothing particularly roguish about
him, to my knowledge! - I hope you do not get again Uniamma, Arab. also
wrote to Nathanael how insufferable her behaviour was. In my absence I wish
you to have as little as possible of this kind of extra charges. - Your ac-
count of the Begbie's amused me but without giving me any joy: these are
the sort of people who especially disgust worldly persons with the very
name of religion. May they discover that they have to lay the first founda-
tions, and that hitherto they had nothing beyond fine talk. - Day before
yesterday Minchin was here with his eldest son from Palhalli. He brought
Selams from Halliday and the Groves. West had passed through and declared
the house to be in danger of falling, because its dimensions were not all
according to the number seven. Of this I know nothing, but so much I have
learnt, that this sugarmanufactury looks very much like a house divided
against itself. - This evening M<ogl>* will return to Ott. have one meeting
more tomorrow and go in the evening to Avalanche. He says he feels decided-
ly better, but the change appears not very evident. - As for my person, I
shall when at Kotirg begin again some watercure processes, perhaps the wet
sheet or something else, it may now be more effective after having inter-
rupted it so long. Mglg will tell you all about us, about the 22d or 23d.
The Bishop <Dealtry>* has invited all the Missionaries for Wednesday even-
ing (14th) to dinner. but I did not accept, as it is rather inconvenient
for me to be out at night. So I shall not go before Thursday to Kotirgh.
for in the 1st place the Cooly has not come, and in the 2d I can only have
a horse then, when Mîr. sends his back Wednesd evening. The Bishp heard
that Mglg was to go before that day, so he invited him separately Friday
evening. But it seems to have been rather an uninteresting evening, some
worldly persons being likewise present. The Kotirgh Chaplain had asked for
leave to divide the service between himself and BÅhrer the one reading the
prayers the other the sermon. This the Bishop would not allow though he has
no objection against their taking the whole by turns. He tried to defend
this in conversation with Mglg without pointedly alluding to it saying
something like this: unity may be the right thing and it may yet fully come
to pass, but at present such a fusion might create confusion etc" - Yester-
day evening before going off Mîr. prayed - and Mglg yet once more talked in
private to the Buhlers, chiefly to exhort them to have common morning and
evening prayers. - The Cholera is in Dharwar Weigle's mention that 2 of the
Church died. Mrs Albr. is gone to Hoobly to assist Mrs MÅller who was deli-
vered of a son! - When Mglg comes you have to give him (or remind him of
taking) Barth's Bible Commentary, a Canarese-Samscrit work written on folio
rolled together on the medicine table, 6 or as many little boxes of Hal-
lisch pills as he likes to take.

BÅhler will now have to go to Ottac. for his work in M's stead. Rather a
trial for Mrs B. - Nath has sent through Nicolaus a bottle of honey nearly
full to Arabella. Mgl yesterday told me that their servants have begun to
steal from it he will protect it in future. Now farewell
.fo -
                                 Yours HG
.ns
.dr HG140551
