.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Mrs Gundert, Kotirgherry, Neilgherries, pd, 2via Calicut1

                                                         Tellich 21 Febr 48
                                                                  <Monday>*
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 21 Febr 48
I have to thank you for the longer letter received whilst I returned from
Cannanore for a day - now I have returned after finishing the time of my
locum tenens service. Hebich's 25 Regt is now ordered to China. There will
be many prayers offered for that nation by the very people that fight
against them. Heb. has been very happy at Payawur no stones flying nor much
opposition, plenty of opportunity to preach. I am glad I could help him by
occupying his place. The new regiment has but few nice people the officers
of the Sepoyregiments come to the number of 8 or 9 regularly. Dear souls I
was very happy with them. But also one of these regts may be called to Chi-
na. Yesterday whilst I preached an officer had to lead his lady out of
Chapel, so much affected was she by a sudden recollection of the report she
had heard that they may be ordered on foreign service. - I returned this
morning by boat and found these letters. One of Reinhard I retain as I wish
to answer soon. But tell Weigle that O Herrmann in a disputation defended
the thesis, quicunque scripta a Drr Baur Swegler etc edita legit tempus mi-
sere perdit: was nicht geringen Sturm erregte. Lastly H is said to have
called B. a pig that undoes the vineyard of the Lord! etc - Hebich received
from Christ 2400 œ1 for the 22d1 quarter, the 3d he was told he will receive
soon through Mr Casamajor. Perhaps the letters they receive before the end
of the 3d quarter will induce them to give some extraordinary presents to
us. Insp. Hoffm. pretty well again, is said to have held the service of the
6th Jany. I hope you are pretty well. Dear Frederick liked much to see me
again.
.fo -
Now farewell
                              Your H Gundert
.ns
.dr HG240248
