.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev. H. Gundert, 2Tellicherry.1 Bearing

                                                    Kotagarry 23 Mars <48>*
                                                                <Thursday>*
Dear papa.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 23 Mars <48>*
What is the meaning of __________________________________________________
and of ______________________

Bien oblig‚ pour ta lettre du 16me. Frederich aura sans doute ‚t‚ bien r‚-
joui de te revoir. Quelle maladie est … Cannanore que les enfans y meurent
en si grand nombre? Samedi nous attendons ici Mrs Mogling et Moerike. j'ap-
prendrai de lui je pense a quel temps il pense … quitter les collines;
Comme probablement il ira … Tellicherry; tu ne te donneras pas la peine de
venir jusqu'… Calicut; j'espŠre que le chemin par mer sera encore prati-
quable et que nous pourrons prendre un bateau de C. … T.

Depuis quelques temps soeur Greiner a d'assez mauvaises nouvelles de son
Mari; Il a de violents maux de reins, de tems … autre des ‚vanouissements.
Il parait surtout souffrir beaucoup des h‚morrhoides; Sophie Buhler est
aussi d‚licate et faible;

Nous pensons souvent aux amis Huber; Le vent parait ˆtre partout malsaint;
ici apeu prŠs tout le monde se plaint de coup de froid. J'en ai un ces
jours ci trŠs s‚vere; sous ce rapport, j'avoue que j'espŠre que je serai
mieux … Tellichery qu'ici. A l'exception de ce coup de froid je suis grƒce
Dieu joliment, et j'aime bien mes petites occupations "d'house keeping and
looking about." I have in my room the little girl I intend to take down to
T. In a few days we shall move from Mount Pleasant to Goarehouse which is
nearly finished at last!

Poor Wests! She seems to be always without money; for she has been asking
the rent of her house before the time. I am glad for her that at our depar-
ture of this house, a Gentleman is to take it for a few month. She would do
better to go to her husband and live her children under propre cares. If he
wants so much to go to China why not go; he may learn a lesson which he re-
fuses to hear here.

My love to all, Kisses to Frederich. Mogling says, that F. is very much
like Samuel.
.fo -
                               Yours afftly
                                     J. Gundert
.fo +

Bertah Albrech writes to Sophie B. that her child is very poorly. he has
had no good time since he is born.

The Gentleman who would come to this house will not come, he finds it too
windy. Indeed it is so, and I had the worse room; so I am glad we are to
leave it on Monday.
.ns
.dr HG250348
