.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rev H. Gundert, Mangalore

                                                        Calicut 23d Dec. 57
Dear Papa.

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 23d Dec. 57
Here the news God be praised!

Richter came this morning not at all "deconcerte" at the observations of
Mrs H. "If it is Gods will it will come to pass, and I cannot go back with-
out speaking to Mr. H. said R. In two month the Coork mission is to belong
to a soscity either Church mission or Bale." So I went to the Mama told her
of R having come and of his desire to speak to her. She came back with me
and had a long talk with him in your room! He is to go take tea with them
this evening. She asked me when I went to her "has he any money? Does he
belong to a respectable family? I am to act for an other therefore I have
to care for the future. Should my daughter have to go home would she find a
propre sosciety in his relations?" To this I said that she had to inquire
to himself so I left her alone with him. She tried him a good deal he told
me afterward: for: Why he had left M. to go to Coorg. he did not tell her
the reason, made it up as well as he could. I leave room to say a word aft-
er I know what an impression she made on him; for from this depend the fu-
ture

As Richter will write himself how he went in his first entrevue I say noth-
ing. The Robinsons have come back yesterday, they are to be present tomor-
row at the girls Christmas present! Richter shall play, the small church
piano shall be carried at school for the purpose. I only wish the evening
be over already

Now Good bye May you have a good Christmas and I too
.fo -
                                                      Yours J Gundert

No mercure as yet has come
.ns
.dr HG241257
