.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Madame Mme Gundert, aux soins de Mme May de Blonay, Vevay, Canton de Vaud,
fco

                                                        Stuttg 29 July 1846
My dear wife

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 29 July 1846
Your letter of the 21st <und der vom 14.?>* has come to hand, that is to
say has been sent after me on one of my excursions, opened and read by Papa
according to his custom. I wished for a moment it had been written in Ma-
layalam, but after all fear in such a case I might have waited for some
months longer without receiving a letter, seeing that it gives you such an
amazing deal of labour to write one in French or English. And what have you
to do with Ladies so or so? Write with the post and regularly, or I loose
every pleasure in corresponding with you. Even now, having been exactly 4
weeks without a line from you, though you had twice letters from me, I come
to no details, because it is rather a task than a joy to repeat the doings
of a whole month. If I had a letter every week you might get more news out
of me, I assure you.

And now after the scolding I thank for the letter nevertheless. You say
nothing of the time when you left Corcelles, so I am left to imaginations.
But the great question is, what to do in case your expectations should be
verified. Probably you like to hear of my ideas? I say that I recognize a
duty in this, that if you are to be confined in Europe I must wait for you:
for how would you alone travel and voyage with such a tender child, say of
half a year? Now if God shows this necessity I am ready to stop a year
longer. An other question would be: could we not perhaps hope for such a
recovery of your strength that you might accompany me in time sufficient
for an accouchement at Tellicherry. We might leave home about the end of
Dec. embark in Marseilles beginning of Jan. reach Bombay 8-9 Febr and Tel-
lich. before the end of the month. I say this chiefly with regard to such
things as a nurse, milk etc. After all these things are not decided in a
moment, Mengert's child suffered from the overland journey, Weitbrecht's
passed through it very well. But let us pray for God's guidance in the mat-
ter and cast aside all apprehensions.
.
On the 12 and 13th of July Victoria Kegel, the Candidate for the Ladies
Mission was with me very modest and pleasing, and I have written to the
Committee to employ her. Perhaps they send her to us over the winter to
learn English etc in Company. But I suppose till now she is meant for Leh-
ner's. Did you ever hear that my parents would feel inclined to propose
Rîsle, the songstress of the kitchen to accompany us in such a situation?
What would you think of it?

The 15th till 18th I might <made>* a journey with Papa and the 4 boys, also
through Plochingen where we found Mrs Kaiser exceedgly glad of the grandson
in Nettur. Also the postkeeper's were very friendly. Then I went to help
BÅhrer to his dear bride, Miss Sophie Hochstetter. She will do very well
for him: I was glad to be able to hasten the settling of the affair. She
and her father (a minister, my dear friend) are quite decided and the moth-
er has at last acceded. They were sorry not to meet you.

The 20th professeur Wagner departed for Neuchatel with recommendations from
me to Chable etc - The 21st in Esslingen where a niece of Selma was buried.
to Gîppingen. - 22d to Amstetten where Mrs Binder wishes to be most kindly
remembered to you. She is very well but the children are still deaf and
there is no change. Her husband rather weak. to Nellingen, Hebich's birth-
place - Ulm, meeting etc - Gîppingen Missionary feast and much conversation
with MÅller's and Greiners - Schorndorf, where I had also work - this mor-
ning I returned hither and thank the Lord for all his kindness.

Herrm. and Samuel are very well behaved - Your letter rejoiced them exceed-
ingly: "Marie spricht jetzt franzîsisch, was soll ich dann zu ihr sagen?"
Their vacation is over. I have now promised them to visit Corcelles about
the 30th Sept or 1st Oct. You may fancy their joy.

Give my cordial salutations to Mme May, Marie etc Mama and Grandmama and
all join in Selaming you with
.fo -
                              Your Hermann G.
.ns
Frederick MÅller has written "all well, Paul rejoices the heart as often as
one sees him - he has suffered some time from a beating of the Mapillas.
Paul's brother is more friendly. Cornelius is housefather in the poorhouse
- Irion's son Christian Frederick.
.ns
.dr HG030846
