.za 1.5
.ue 1
                                                                       $.#$
Rvd H Gundert, Tellicherry, Bearing.

                                                  Katary fulls 27 may <47>*
                                                                   <Donn.>*
Dear papa

.ue 2
                                                                       $.#$
Forts.: 27 may <47>*
Il n'i a que quelques jours que tu as eu de nos nouvelles ainsi je ne sai
trop que dire. Ta demandes touchant mes mois. Ils avaient finis le 8 et
sont revenu le 23, mais moins fort qu'alordinaire c'est … dire moins que
depuis cette derniŠre couche

Lundi le Dr of Otacamund est venu nous faire une visite, sachant qu'il y
avait ici deux malades le Chapelain Romlenson l'a enguag‚ … passer ici dans
une des ses course des environs. AprŠs lui avoir dit comment je me sentais,
il a ordonn‚ des pilules. Des injections, et des goutes soir et matin c'est
il me parait de la tinture d'acier. Il dit aussi que si la rupture qui
s'est faite a mes couche ne se remettait pas avec les plastres je devrais
peut ˆtre aller a Otacamund pour y etre soign‚e. Pense tu que ce soit
n‚cessaire?

You have I suppose much rain now, here it is very pleasant til now very
little rain we can walk every day This morning I have begun a early walk
which I hope to continue every morning for the air is most delightfull and
I trust this will strangthen me much throug the blessing of God.

We have beautiful potatoes in our garden. but every night the porqupines
feed on them so it is to be feared that we shall have none for ourselves.
People are watching Mr M”reke is sautting* but nothing help. As for veg‚ta-
bles very few are to be had too, other kind of animals like them leave us
but a very small quantity. Potatues are very dear here 1 1/2 Rupie the
mound some times one may have them for 1/4 of Rp some of them seam to have
felt some what of the sickness.

Please to tell me if dear Frederich is quite well, if he becomes a litte
fat and staut how is his nurse and Isabella, how many times does he eat
canjee and does he like it Does he eat allways of Arraroot perhaps he would
like a littele saigo Do tell me. Dear Marie is he troublesome at night and
how are you in your health and the dear sisters of Nettoor and Telli. ...es
to all the Dear people, Kisses to the two babies.

Dis moi cher papa comment ca va avec vous tous; t'entens tu bien avec M K
va t elle bien avec les soeurs. Mr Moreke continue d'ˆtre joliment, ici
comme ailleurs les frŠres ont quelques m‚sentendu ce qui ote la communion
de tems … autre.

Adieu cher Mari On se r‚jouit bien de te voir ici tout le monde ainsi que
moi mˆme

Que la paix et la Grƒce repose sur vous tous ChŠre Mme W est bien aimable

As regarding Flora B the consomption seams to have began two yars ago when
she had a bad cold from which time she has cough more or less Miss Hales
has said some one that she had no doubt that F. was prepared to meet the
Lord in whom she had believed.

Mrs W has written to Mr Mogling about my box.

Yesterday we had 21 degrees so rather hot to day it is raining and pretty
cold at Ootacamund it is much colder one can see his breath and many people
complain of having a cold, though they like it
.fo -

                                 Now Adieu
                                      Yours aff J Gundert
.ns
.dr HG290547
